[IMP] accounting/l10n_co: additional context (#5936)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/fiscal_localizations/colombia.rst

     - `l10n_co`
     - Default :ref:`fiscal localization package <fiscal_localizations/packages>`. This module adds
       the base accounting features for the Colombian localization: chart of accounts, taxes,
       withholdings, and identification document type.
   * - :guilabel:`Colombian - Accounting Reports`
     - `l10n_co_reports`
     - Includes accounting reports for sending certifications to suppliers for withholdings applied.
   * - :guilabel:`Electronic invoicing for Colombia with Carvajal`
     - `l10n_co_edi`

>      - This module includes the features that are required for the integration with Carvajal and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - This module includes the features required for integration with Carvajal, and
```

>        generates the electronic invoices and support document related to the vendor bills, based on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       generates the electronic invoices and support documents related to the vendor bills, based on
```

       |DIAN| regulations.
   * - :guilabel:`Colombian - Point of Sale`
     - `l10n_co_pos`

>      - Includes Point of Sale receipt for Colombian localization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Includes Point of Sale receipts for Colombian localization.
```

Reviewer: "receipts" sounds better- UNLESS there is only a single receipt produced (but I doubt it).

.. note::
   When `Colombia` is selected for a company's :guilabel:`Fiscal Localization`, Odoo automatically
   installs certain modules.

Company configuration
---------------------

To configure your company information, go to the :menuselection:`Contacts` app, and search for your
company.

Alternatively, activate :ref:`developer mode <developer-mode>` and navigate to
:menuselection:`General Setting --> Company --> Update Info --> Contact`. Then, edit the contact

> form to configure the following information:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
form and configure the following information:
```

- :guilabel:`Company Name`.
- :guilabel:`Address`: Including :guilabel:`City`, :guilabel:`Department` and :guilabel:`ZIP` code.
- :guilabel:`Identification Number`: Select the :guilabel:`Identification Type` (`NIT`, `Cédula de
  Ciudadanía`, `Registro Civil`, etc.). When the :guilabel:`Identification Type` is `NIT`, the
  :guilabel:`Identification Number` **must** have the *verification digit* at the end of the ID
  prefixed by a hyphen (`-`).

Next, configure the :guilabel:`Fiscal Information` in the :guilabel:`Sales & Purchase` tab:

- :guilabel:`Obligaciones y Responsabilidades`: Select the fiscal responsibility for the company
  (`O-13` Gran Contribuyente, `O-15` Autorretenedor, `O-23` Agente de retención IVA, `O-47` Regimen
  de tributación simple, `R-99-PN` No Aplica).
- :guilabel:`Gran Contribuyente`: If the company is *Gran Contribuyente* this option should be
  selected.
- :guilabel:`Fiscal Regimen`: Select the Tribute Name for the company (`IVA`, `INC`, `IVA e INC`,

>   `No Aplica`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 or  `No Aplica`)
```

- :guilabel:`Commercial Name`: If the company uses a specific commercial name, and it needs to be
  displayed in the invoice.

Carjaval credentials configuration
----------------------------------

Once the modules are installed, the user credentials **must** be configured, in order to connect
with Carvajal Web Service. To do so, navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration -->
Settings` and scroll to the :guilabel:`Colombian Electronic Invoicing` section. Then, fill in the
required configuration information provided by Carvajal:

- :guilabel:`Username` and :guilabel:`Password`: Username and password (provided by Carvajal) to the
  company.
- :guilabel:`Company Registry`: Company's NIT number *without* the verification code.
- :guilabel:`Account ID`: Company's NIT number followed by `_01`.
- :guilabel:`Colombia Template Code`: Select one of the two available templates (`CGEN03` or
  `CGNE04`) to be used in the PDF format of the electronic invoice.

> Check the :guilabel:`Test mode` checkbox to connect with the Carvajal testing environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable the :guilabel:`Test mode` checkbox to connect with the Carvajal testing environment.
```

> Once Odoo and Carvajal are fully configured and ready for production, uncheck the :guilabel:`Test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once Odoo and Carvajal are fully configured and ready for production, deactivate the :guilabel:`Test
```

mode` checkbox to use the production database.

.. image:: colombia/carvajal-configuration.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Configure credentials for Carvajal web service in Odoo.

.. important::

>    :guilabel:`Test mode` must be used **only** on duplicated databases, **not** the production

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :guilabel:`Test mode` must **only** be used on duplicated databases, **not** the production
```

Partner
~~~~~~~

> Partner contacts can be created in the *Contacts* app. To do so, navigate to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Partner contacts can be created in the *Contacts* application. To do so, navigate to
```

:menuselection:`Contacts`, and click the :guilabel:`Create` button.

> Then, name the contact, and set the contact type by selecting the :guilabel:`Individual` or
> :guilabel:`Company` radio button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, name the contact, and using the radio buttons, select the contact type, either :guilabel:`Individual` or :guilabel:`Company`.
```

Complete the full :guilabel:`Address`, including the :guilabel:`City`, :guilabel:`State`, and

> :guilabel:`ZIP` code. Proceed to complete the identification and fiscal information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`ZIP` code. Then, complete the identification and fiscal information.
```

Identification information
**************************

Identification types, defined by the |DIAN|, are available on the partner form, as part of the
Colombian localization. Colombian partners **must** have their :guilabel:`Identification Number`
(VAT) and :guilabel:`Document Type` set.

.. tip::
   When the :guilabel:`Document Type` is `NIT`, the :guilabel:`Identification Number` needs to be
   configured in Odoo, including the *verification digit at the end of the ID, prefixed by a hyphen
   (`-`)*.

Fiscal information
******************

The partner's responsibility codes (section 53 in the :abbr:`RUT (Registro único tributario)`
document) are included as part of the electronic invoicing module, as it is required by the |DIAN|.

The required fields can be found under :menuselection:`Partner --> Sales & Purchase Tab --> Fiscal
Information section`:

- :guilabel:`Obligaciones y Responsabilidades`: Select the fiscal responsibility for the company
  (`O-13` Gran Contribuyente, `O-15` Autorretenedor, `O-23` Agente de retención IVA, `O-47` Regimen

>   de tributación simple, `R-99-PN` No Aplica).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  de tributación simple, or `R-99-PN` No Aplica).
```

- :guilabel:`Gran Contribuyente`: If the company is *Gran Contribuyente* this option should be
  selected.

> - :guilabel:`Fiscal Regimen`: Select the tribute name for the company (`IVA`, `INC`, `IVA e INC`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Fiscal Regimen`: Select the tribute name for the company (`IVA`, `INC`, `IVA e INC`, or
```

  `No Aplica`)
- :guilabel:`Commercial Name`: If the company uses a specific commercial name, and it needs to be
  displayed in the invoice.

Products
~~~~~~~~

To manage products, navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Customers --> Products`, then click
on a product.

When adding general information on the product form, it is required that either the
:guilabel:`UNSPSC Category` (:guilabel:`Accounting` tab), or :guilabel:`Internal Reference`
(:guilabel:`General Information` tab) field is configured. Be sure to :guilabel:`Save` the product
once configured.

Taxes
~~~~~

To create or modify taxes, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Taxes`, and select
the related tax.

If sales transactions include products with taxes, the :guilabel:`Value Type` field in the
:guilabel:`Advanced Options` tab needs to be configured per tax. Retention tax types
(:guilabel:`ICA`, :guilabel:`IVA`, :guilabel:`Fuente`) are also included. This configuration is used

> to display taxes in the invoice PDF correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to display taxes correctly in the invoice PDF.
```

also displayed in the chatter.

.. image:: colombia/invoice-sent.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Carvajal XML invoice file in Odoo chatter.

The :guilabel:`Electronic Invoice Name` field is now displayed in the :guilabel:`EDI Documents` tab,
with the name of the XML file. Additionally, the :guilabel:`Electronic Invoice Status` field is
displayed with the initial value :guilabel:`In progress`, which is located in the invoice header.

.. _colombia/invoice-xml:

Reception of legal XML and PDF
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The electronic invoice vendor (Carvajal) receives the XML file, and proceeds to validate its
structure and information.

> The *electronic invoice status* could be checked in the :guilabel:`Action` menu, by selecting the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *electronic invoice status* can be checked in the :guilabel:`Action` menu, by clicking the
```

The process for debit notes is similar to credit notes. To create a debit note with reference to an
invoice, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Customers --> Invoices`. On the invoice, click the

> :guilabel:`Add Debit Note` button, and complete the following information:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Add Debit Note` button, and enter the following information:
```
